Hello everyone and welcome back.
In the last lesson we wrote our first security rule and what we did was we wrote it on this read.
But if you remember from the first lesson I mentioned that read actually breaks into both get and list
get allows users to fetch specific user document reference objects individually.
List allows users to get the entire collection.
In our case we never want a user to be able to get all of the users we have stored in our database because
no user ever should be able to access any of that sensitive information.
So what we can do in this lesson is actually start getting more granular.
So what we want to do is we want to changes allow Reid to allow get meaning that we only want users
to get specific documents based on that same condition that we've already written.
But let's just test this again in our simulator with our new rule.
We keep the same and we make sure that our UI matches the actual I.D. of the user we're trying to fetch
and we run our simulated get call and here we see that our read is the same.
So this is perfectly fine.
But with these more granular rules what we're going to actually explore is writing additional rules
for the actual right method as well.
So we saw that there was read and read breaks in to get an list but there's also right and right breaks
in to create an update as well as delete.
In our case we never want users to be able to delete any user objects and set up a database.
So we're just not going to write a rule for that.
Instead what we're going to do is we're gonna say allow create if the requested user actually is authenticate
in the first place.
So here we're gonna say request auth does not equal no.
Now you might be wondering how are we able to actually create a user object if we're expecting them
to have an object already.
Well if you remember the authentication actually happens in the authentication tab the users that we're
writing to exist inside of our database.
They're actually two separate things.
This off object is not controlled by us as far as it belonging on the request keyword goes.
The request schema would have the authentication as long as the user has authenticated using the authentication
library that we've been leveraging inside of our code base with that Google pop up or that email password
sign and that all happens using the authentication library the authentication library allows the request
to know whether or not they're authenticate in the first place.
So this makes perfect sense because we only want a user to be able to create a user object.
If in the first place that auth exists so here what we're saying is that we only want users to be able
to create something if they've authenticated already.
You can get even more granular by saying that if there is a UI.
What you can expect there to be what we want to say is that only then are they allowed to actually write
against some specific user I.D. path because here if you remember in our code base we actually write
right against the path in the first place.
We use the UI to represent the document references place inside of our database.
If we look at the code for our firebase utilize and we look at our create user profile document we see
that what we're doing is that as long as the user auth up object exists we are getting the user reference
document object at user slash UI.
So here even though the object doesn't exist yet in our database firebase is smart enough to know that
we want to potentially make an object here.
So our rule here is actually going to be the exact same as our rule above.
And now if we want actually group these together we can say allow get or create using the same ruling.
A user is only allowed to create an object if they've authenticated as well as that object that they're
making is the one that belongs to their own authentication in the first place.
And now we can actually test this out as well.
So instead of simulating a get call I'm going to simulate a create call and I'm gonna create against
some random string here if I'm not authenticated and I run this I should be denied because I'm not authenticated
if I am authenticated but I'm trying to create an object for some place in the database where the I.D.
doesn't match the idea of my authentication meaning that I'm authenticated sure but I'm trying to make
50 different users I should not be able to do so.
So here I'm still using that old UI that I had but here I'm trying to make it against some new place
in the database.
If I were to run this I should also fail.
So this way just because a user authenticated doesn't mean they can suddenly spam and create multiple
user objects in our database.
However if the UI does match then if I run I should be allowed to.
This makes sense if I'm trying to authenticate for the first time then is the only time when our application
should be allowed to make a actual new user Document object inside of our database.
Now what's great about this rule is that it's pretty applicable in many cases with user objects in the
first place.
If in the future a user wanted to update their profile in some way let's say we built a feature where
we allowed users to update information on their user object we could do so by either adding some update
fields here because this would pretty much be the same thing.
We only want users to be able to update their own object and they can only update it if they're authenticated
and the UI matches there user I.D. So by adding update this will work.
Alternatively we can just group create an update together into right so just like that we've kind of
gone around and combined two back into one as long as it suits the needs of what rules that we're writing.
This really just shows the power and flexibility of Firebase and the security rules.
It allows us to get more granular if we need to and it allows us to get very specific and more broad.
If we wanted to as well we just have to keep in mind and really think about what it is that we're trying
to do with these security rules.
But that's really all that is to it.
And with that we've written our users collection security rule and now that we've secured our users
database what we've learned just now is going to be pretty much identical to the same things we're going
to apply to any other database that we want to encrypt.
So we're gonna do this with our collections database in the next lesson.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.